exploration: `finally` (#4507)
dfinity/motoko: Changelog.md

# Motoko compiler changelog

## 0.12.0 (to come)

* motoko (`moc`)

  * feat: `finally` clauses for `try` expressions (#4507).

    A trailing `finally` clause to `try`/`catch` expressions facilitates structured
    resource deallocation (e.g. acquired locks, etc.) and similar cleanups in the
    presence of control-flow expressions (`return`, `break`, `continue`, `throw`).

>     _Note_: `finally`-expressions that are in scope will be executed even if an execution
>     path _following_ an `await`-expression traps. This behaviour, not available before in Motoko,
>     allows programmers writing last-resort cleanups. For trapping execution paths _without_ an
>     intervening `await`, the replica-provided state rewinding mechanism stays in charge of
>     the cleanup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _Note_: `finally`-expressions that are in scope will be executed even if an execution
    path _following_ an `await`-expression traps. This feature, not available before in Motoko,
    allows programmers to implement cleanups even in the presence of traps. For trapping 
    execution paths prior to any `await`, the replica-provided state roll back mechanism must 
    ensure no cleanup is required.
```

    A trailing `finally` clause to `try`/`catch` expressions facilitates structured
    resource deallocation (e.g. acquired locks, etc.) and similar cleanups in the
    presence of control-flow expressions (`return`, `break`, `continue`, `throw`).

>     Additionally, in presence of `finally` the `catch` clause becomes optional and
>     potential errors fall through to any enclosing `catch`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Additionally, in presence of `finally` the `catch` clause becomes optional and
    and any uncaught error from the `try` block will be propagated, after executing the `finally` block.
```

Its probably worth adding a test for this if we don't alread have one. i.e. Somethink like:
```
var done = false
try { throw Prim.error(foo) }
finally { done := true }
assert done
```
